# Gene-Prediction

The following repository contains Java scripts which can be used to predict the coding regions from the DNA sequence of the given species of *Vibrio vulnificus* which is provided. The script uses the Viterbi algorithm which uses dynamic programming to compute the most probable path from sequence information. The script goes through every sequence in the FASTA file provided and execudes the Viterbi algorithm which uses posterior probabilities to assign each nucleotide within the sequence one of four possible states: (1) intergenic (non-coding), (2) start, (3) genic (coding), and (4) stop. The program goes through the sequence and notes the nucleotides which contain start, genic, or stop codons then writes their possition to a file which is returned as output - the results.txt file which is included in this repository. To execute the Viterbi algorithm, we must determine the probability of seeing each nucleotide A, T, G, C in the intergenic state, as well as each codon in the start state, genic state, and stop state. Codons are triplets of nucleotides. Since coding regions are read as triplets, we look at codon frequency rather than nucleotide frequency. The probability of transitioning between genic and intergenic states as well as the nucleotide and codon freuqnecies within each state is determined using Hidden Markov Model parameter estimation using the known intergenic and genic regions in the DNA sequence of a closely related species - *Vibrio cholerae*. The results of these probabilities are found within the Details_for_Vitebri.txt file and is used in our algorithm. To execute the algorithm the Viterbi.java file must be run.
